README.md, before:

# YetAnotherMarketplace
This is a main repo of YetAnotherMarketplace project. YetAnotherMarketplace is a study marketplace website currently it has only a few features: `Register and login`, `Basket linked to user`, `Products sorting and filtering`.

## Run
Write in console `docker-compose up` and navigate:
- `http://localhost:4200` Frontend.
- `http://localhost:5003/swagger/index.html` Gateway swagger docs.

## Frontend
Frontend is written using Angular. I tried to make it modular so i extracted some components to make them presentational components. It has several pages:
- `Shop` This is a products list page that contains sorting, filtering, searching and pagination for products.
- `Login/Register` This is just a login/register form.
- `Basket` This is a basket overview page. There you can increase, decrease or delete product from basket.

### CI/CD
Frontend repository has github actions workflow that publishes angular image to dockerhub.

## Backend
Backend consists of several REST API Services that work behind a gateway. Some transient or not very important data stores in redis (refresh tokens and user's baskets). All services contain unit and integration tests. Services:
- `Gateway` Generates request id and authorizes several endpoints.
- `AccountService` Authorizes users by jwt and refresh tokens.
- `BasketService` Manages baskets that bound to users.
- `ProductService` Provides products, brands and product types.

### Logging
Services use serilog + seq for logging. Gateway generates request id and propagates it when forwarding request in `x-request-id` header thus you can track logs for same request among services.

### CI/CD
Service repositories have github actions workflows for build application, run unit and integration tests and publish image to dockerhub.

### Authorization
Authorization is done by `AccountService` that utilize jwt and refresh tokens. Gateway expects jwt token in `Authorization` header.

### Swagger
You can observe shrink swagger documentation of each service in gateway swagger documentation at `http://localhost:5003/swagger/index.html`. Each service has its own swagger docs but services are not exposed by default. Before observing swagger docs of specific service you need to expose its port in docker-compose file. Example:
```
ports:
  - 5002:80
```

### Environment variables
All services contains folowing variables:
- `Serilog` You can override serilog configuration for any service.
- `AutoMigrate=true/false` Controls sql server migration on startup.
- `AutoSeed=true/false` Controls sql server seeding with sample data on startup.

Commit message:

Split deploy on two parts

README.md, after:

# YetAnotherMarketplace
This is a main repo of YetAnotherMarketplace project. YetAnotherMarketplace is a study marketplace website currently it has only a few features: `Register and login`, `Basket linked to user`, `Products sorting and filtering`.

## Run
Write in console `docker-compose up`. After all services fully launches run `docker-compose -f docker-compose.services.yml up` and navigate:
- `http://localhost:4200` Frontend.
- `http://localhost:5003/swagger/index.html` Gateway swagger docs.

The reason why deploy splitted on two parts is that sql server and seq in particular emits that they are "ready" too early when they are not ready to consume requests hence sometimes services try to run migration from zero because they think that db doesn't exists.

## Frontend
Frontend is written using Angular. I tried to make it modular so i extracted some components to make them presentational components. It has several pages:
- `Shop` This is a products list page that contains sorting, filtering, searching and pagination for products.
- `Login/Register` This is just a login/register form.
- `Basket` This is a basket overview page. There you can increase, decrease or delete product from basket.

### CI/CD
Frontend repository has github actions workflow that publishes angular image to dockerhub.

## Backend
Backend consists of several REST API Services that work behind a gateway. Some transient or not very important data stores in redis (refresh tokens and user's baskets). All services contain unit and integration tests. Services:
- `Gateway` Generates request id and authorizes several endpoints.
- `AccountService` Authorizes users by jwt and refresh tokens.
- `BasketService` Manages baskets that bound to users.
- `ProductService` Provides products, brands and product types.

### Logging
Services use serilog + seq for logging. Gateway generates request id and propagates it when forwarding request in `x-request-id` header thus you can track logs for same request among services.

### CI/CD
Service repositories have github actions workflows for build application, run unit and integration tests and publish image to dockerhub.

### Authorization
Authorization is done by `AccountService` that utilize jwt and refresh tokens. Gateway expects jwt token in `Authorization` header.

### Swagger
You can observe shrink swagger documentation of each service in gateway swagger documentation at `http://localhost:5003/swagger/index.html`. Each service has its own swagger docs but services are not exposed by default. Before observing swagger docs of specific service you need to expose its port in docker-compose file. Example:
```
ports:
  - 5002:80
```

### Environment variables
All services contains folowing variables:
- `Serilog` You can override serilog configuration for any service.
- `AutoMigrate=true/false` Controls sql server migration on startup.
- `AutoSeed=true/false` Controls sql server seeding with sample data on startup.
